## Looping your code with while

In general, in Python, a loop can be represented as follows:

while conditional_expression:
    instruction
    
// Store the current largest number here.
largest_number = -999999999

// Input the first value.
number = int(input("Enter a number or type -1 to stop: "))

// If the number is not equal to -1, continue.
while number != -1:
    // Is number larger than largest_number?
    if number > largest_number:
        // Yes, update largest_number.
        largest_number = number
    // Input the next number.
    number = int(input("Enter a number or type -1 to stop: "))

// Print the largest number.
print("The largest number is:", largest_number)

# Using a counter variable to exit a loop

counter = 5
while counter:
    print("Inside the loop.", counter)
    counter -= 1
print("Outside the loop.", counter)

# Looping your code with for
The for loop is designed to do more complicated tasks - it can "browse" large collections of data item by item. 

for i in range(100):
    # do_something()
    pass

There are some new elements. Let us tell you about them:

-the for keyword opens the for loop; note - there's no condition after it; you don't have to think about conditions, as they're checked internally, without any intervention;
-any variable after the for keyword is the control variable of the loop; it counts the loop's turns, and does it automatically;
-the in keyword introduces a syntax element describing the range of possible values being assigned to the control variable;
-the range() function (this is a very special function) is responsible for generating all the desired values of the control variable; in our example, the function will create (we can even say that it will feed the loop with) subsequent values from the following set: 0, 1, 2 .. 97, 98, 99; note: in this case, the range() function starts its job from 0 and finishes it one step (one integer number) before the value of its argument;
-note the pass keyword inside the loop body - it does nothing at all; it's an empty instruction - we put it here because the for loop's syntax demands at least one instruction inside the body (by the way - if, elif, else and while express the same thing)

# More about the for loop and the range() function with three arguments

the range() function can accept 3 arguments; 1st and 2nd are the numbers to define where the range ends and begins, and the 3rd arg to define how much to increment the control variable on each loop. So, for example--

for i in range(2, 8, 3):
    print("The value of i is currently", i)
#=> The value of i is currently 2
 The value of i is currently 5
2 (starting number) → 5 (2 increment by 3 equals 5 - the number is within the range from 2 to 8) → 8 (5 increment by 3 equals 8 - the number is not within the range from 2 to 8, because the stop parameter is not included in the sequence of numbers generated by the function.)

Note: the set generated by the range() has to be sorted in ascending order. There's no way to force the range() to create a set in a different form when the range() function accepts exactly two arguments. This means that the range()'s second argument must be greater than the first.

Thus, there will be no output here, either:

for i in range(2, 1):
    print("The value of i is currently", i)


## The break and continue statements
break - (acts as a stop) exits the loop immediately, and unconditionally ends the loop's operation; the program begins to execute the nearest instruction after the loop's body;
continue - (acts as a skip) behaves as if the program has suddenly reached the end of the body; the next turn is started and the condition expression is tested immediately.


print("\nThe continue instruction:")
for i in range(1, 6):
    if i == 3:
        continue
    print("Inside the loop.", i)
print("Outside the loop.")

#=>The continue instruction:
Inside the loop. 1
Inside the loop. 2
Inside the loop. 4
Inside the loop. 5
Outside the loop.

## LAB
Design a program that uses a while loop and continuously asks the user to enter a word unless the user enters "chupacabra" as the secret exit word, in which case the message "You've successfully left the loop." should be printed to the screen, and the loop should terminate

while True:
    word = input("You're stuck in an infinite loop!\nEnter the secret word to leave the loop: ")
    if word == "chupacabra":
        break
print("You've successfully left the loop!")

## The while loop and the else branch

i = 1
while i < 5:
    print(i)
    i += 1
else:
    print("else:", i)
    
#=>1
2
3
4
else: 5

Loops may have the else branch too, like ifs. It essentially reads as (using the above example) "while i is less than 5, do this. Else if that is not true, do this"

The loop's else branch is always executed once, regardless of whether the loop has entered its body or not.

# The for loop and the else branch

i = 111
for i in range(2, 1):
    print(i)
else:
    print("else:", i)

#=> else: 111

The loop's body won't be executed here at all. Note: we've assigned the i variable before the loop.

## Lab

Your task is to write a program which reads the number of blocks the builders have, and outputs the height of the pyramid that can be built using these blocks.

Note: the height is measured by the number of fully completed layers - if the builders don't have a sufficient number of blocks and cannot complete the next layer, they finish their work immediately.

blocks = int(input("Enter the number of blocks: "))

height = 0
in_layer = 1
while in_layer <= blocks:
    height += 1
    blocks -= in_layer
    in_layer += 1

print("The height of the pyramid:", height)

## Key takeaways

1. There are two types of loops in Python: while and for:

the while loop executes a statement or a set of statements as long as a specified boolean condition is true, e.g.:

# Example 1
while True:
    print("Stuck in an infinite loop.")

# Example 2
counter = 5
while counter > 2:
    print(counter)
    counter -= 1


the for loop executes a set of statements many times; it's used to iterate over a sequence (e.g., a list, a dictionary, a tuple, or a set - you will learn about them soon) or other objects that are iterable (e.g., strings). You can use the for loop to iterate over a sequence of numbers using the built-in range function. Look at the examples below:

# Example 1
word = "Python"
for letter in word:
    print(letter, end="*")

# Example 2
for i in range(1, 10):
    if i % 2 == 0:
        print(i)


2. You can use the break and continue statements to change the flow of a loop:

You use break to exit a loop, e.g.:

text = "OpenEDG Python Institute"
for letter in text:
    if letter == "P":
        break
    print(letter, end="")


You use continue to skip the current iteration, and continue with the next iteration, e.g.:

text = "pyxpyxpyx"
for letter in text:
    if letter == "x":
        continue
    print(letter, end="")





3. The while and for loops can also have an else clause in Python. The else clause executes after the loop finishes its execution as long as it has not been terminated by break, e.g.:

n = 0

while n != 3:
    print(n)
    n += 1
else:
    print(n, "else")

print()

for i in range(0, 3):
    print(i)
else:
    print(i, "else")


4. The range() function generates a sequence of numbers. It accepts integers and returns range objects. The syntax of range() looks as follows: range(start, stop, step), where:

start is an optional parameter specifying the starting number of the sequence (0 by default)
stop is an optional parameter specifying the end of the sequence generated (it is not included),
and step is an optional parameter specifying the difference between the numbers in the sequence (1 by default.)
Example code:

for i in range(3):
    print(i, end=" ")  # Outputs: 0 1 2

for i in range(6, 1, -2):
    print(i, end=" ")  # Outputs: 6, 4, 2

