The inner life of lists
Lists (and many other complex Python entities) are stored in different ways than ordinary (scalar) variables.

You could say that:

-the name of an ordinary variable is the name of its content;
-the name of a list is the name of a memory location where the list is stored.

list_1 = [1]
list_2 = list_1
list_3 = list_2
list_1[0] = 20
print(list_3)
#=> [20]

The assignment: list_2 = list_1 copies the name of the array, not its contents. In effect, the two names (list_1 and list_2) identify the same location in the computer memory. Modifying one of them affects the other, and vice versa.

# slice()
slice allows you to make a brand new copy of a list, or parts of a list. It copies the contents, not the name/location in memory.

list_1 = [1]
list_2 = list_1[:]
list_1[0] = 2
print(list_2) #=> 1

the code described as [:] is able to produce a brand new list.

One of the most general forms of the slice looks as follows:

my_list[start:end]

similar to indexing (accessing list elements like arr[1]) this syntax makes a new (copy) list, taking elements from the source list - the elements of the indices from start to end - 1 but not including that end element.

Take a look at the snippet:

my_list = [10, 8, 6, 4, 2]
new_list = my_list[1:3]
print(new_list)#=> [8,6]


The new_list list will have end - start (3 - 1 = 2) elements - the ones with indices equal to 1 and 2 (but not 3).

The snippet's output is: [8, 6]

my_list = [10, 8, 6, 4, 2]
new_list = my_list[1:-1]
print(new_list)#=> [8,6,4]

if the start selects an element lying further than the one selected by the end(from the list's beginning point of view), the slice will be empty. 

my_list = [10, 8, 6, 4, 2]
new_list = my_list[-1:1]
print(new_list)#=> []

If you omit the start in your slice, it is assumed that you want to get a slice beginning at the element with index 0.

In other words, the slice of this form:
my_list = [10, 8, 6, 4, 2]
new_list = my_list[:3]
print(new_list) #=> [10,8,6]

Similarly, if you omit the end in your slice, it is assumed that you want the slice to end at the element with the index len(my_list).
my_list = [10, 8, 6, 4, 2]
new_list = my_list[3:]
print(new_list)#=> [4,2]

Omitting both the start and the end makes a copy of the whole list
my_list = [10, 8, 6, 4, 2]
new_list = my_list[:]
print(new_list) #=> [10, 8, 6, 4, 2]

The previously described del instruction is able to delete more than just a list's element at once - it can delete slices too:

my_list = [10, 8, 6, 4, 2]
del my_list[1:3]
print(my_list) #=> [10, 4, 2]

Note: in this case, the slice doesn't produce any new list!

Deleting all the elements at once is possible too:

my_list = [10, 8, 6, 4, 2]
del my_list[:]
print(my_list) #=> []

Similarly, to delete the entire list:
my_list = [10, 8, 6, 4, 2]
del my_list
print(my_list)

## in And not operators
these are able to look through lists in order to check whether a specific value is stored inside the list.

in - checks if a given element (its left arg) is currently stored inside the list (right arg) - the in operator returns True in this case.
not in - checks if the left arg is absent in a list - the not in operator returns True in this case.

## Key takeaways

1. If you have a list l1, then the following assignment: l2 = l1 does not make a copy of the l1 list, but makes the variables l1 and l2 point to one and the same list in memory. For example:

vehicles_one = ['car', 'bicycle', 'motor']
print(vehicles_one) # outputs: ['car', 'bicycle', 'motor']

vehicles_two = vehicles_one
del vehicles_one[0] # deletes 'car'
print(vehicles_two) # outputs: ['bicycle', 'motor']


2. If you want to copy a list or part of the list, you can do it by performing slicing:

colors = ['red', 'green', 'orange']

copy_whole_colors = colors[:]  # copy the entire list
copy_part_colors = colors[0:2]  # copy part of the list


3. You can use negative indices to perform slices, too. For example:

sample_list = ["A", "B", "C", "D", "E"]
new_list = sample_list[2:-1]
print(new_list)  # outputs: ['C', 'D']


4. The start and end parameters are optional when performing a slice: list[start:end], e.g.:

my_list = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
slice_one = my_list[2: ]
slice_two = my_list[ :2]
slice_three = my_list[-2: ]

print(slice_one)  # outputs: [3, 4, 5]
print(slice_two)  # outputs: [1, 2]
print(slice_three)  # outputs: [4, 5]


5. You can delete slices using the del instruction:

my_list = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
del my_list[0:2]
print(my_list)  # outputs: [3, 4, 5]

del my_list[:]
print(my_list)  # deletes the list content, outputs: []


6. You can test if some items exist in a list or not using the keywords in and not in, e.g.:

my_list = ["A", "B", 1, 2]

print("A" in my_list)  # outputs: True
print("C" not in my_list)  # outputs: True
print(2 not in my_list)  # outputs: False
