row = []

for i in range(8):
    row.append(WHITE_PAWN)


It builds a list containing eight elements representing the second row of the chessboard - the one filled with pawns (assume that WHITE_PAWN is a predefined symbol representing a white pawn).

The same effect may be achieved by means of a list comprehension, the special syntax used by Python in order to fill massive lists.
Let us show you some other list comprehension examples:

Example #1:

squares = [x ** 2 for x in range(10)]


The snippet produces a ten-element list filled with squares of ten integer numbers starting from zero (0, 1, 4, 9, 16, 25, 36, 49, 64, 81)

# Lists in lists: two-dimensional arrays

Let's also assume that a predefined symbol named EMPTY designates an empty field on the chessboard.

So if we want to create a list of lists to build a chessboard, it can be accomplished like so:
board = []

for i in range(8):
    row = [EMPTY for i in range(8)] // the inner part of the loop creates a row consisting of eight elements (each of them equal to EMPTY) 
    board.append(row) // appends the new row to the board list
    
The board variable is now a two-dimensional array. It's also called, by analogy to algebraic terms, a matrix.


As list comprehensions can be nested, we can shorten the board creation in the following way:

board = [[EMPTY for i in range(8)] for j in range(8)]


The inner part creates a row, and the outer part builds a list of rows.

## Three-dimensional arrays

Imagine a hotel consisting of 3 buildings, each has 15 floors with 20 rooms on each floor. For this, you need an array which can collect and process information on the occupied/free rooms.

Let's assign boolean values to the array elements and create an array:

rooms = [[[False for r in range(20)] for f in range(15)] for t in range(3)]

The first index (0 through 2) selects one of the buildings; the second (0 through 14) selects the floor, the third (0 through 19) selects the room number. All rooms are initially vacant.

Now you can book a room for two newlyweds: in the second building, on the tenth floor, room 14:

rooms[1][9][13] = True


and release the second room on the fifth floor located in the first building:

rooms[0][4][1] = False


Check if there are any vacancies on the 15th floor of the third building:

vacancy = 0

for room_number in range(20):
    if not rooms[2][14][room_number]:
        vacancy += 1


The vacancy variable contains 0 if all the rooms are occupied, or the number of available rooms otherwise.

## Key Takeaways
Key takeaways

1. List comprehension allows you to create new lists from existing ones in a concise and elegant way. The syntax of a list comprehension looks as follows:

[expression for element in list if conditional]


which is actually an equivalent of the following code:

for element in list:
    if conditional:
        expression


Here's an example of a list comprehension - the code creates a five-element list filled with with the first five natural numbers raised to the power of 3:

cubed = [num ** 3 for num in range(5)]
print(cubed)  # outputs: [0, 1, 8, 27, 64]


2. You can use nested lists in Python to create matrices (i.e., two-dimensional lists). For example:

Table - a two-dimensional array

# A four-column/four-row table - a two dimensional array (4x4)

table = [[":(", ":)", ":(", ":)"],
         [":)", ":(", ":)", ":)"],
         [":(", ":)", ":)", ":("],
         [":)", ":)", ":)", ":("]]

print(table)
print(table[0][0])  # outputs: ':('
print(table[0][3])  # outputs: ':)'




3. You can nest as many lists in lists as you want, and therefore create n-dimensional lists, e.g., three-, four- or even sixty-four-dimensional arrays. For example:

Cube - a three-dimensional array

# Cube - a three-dimensional array (3x3x3)

cube = [[[':(', 'x', 'x'],
         [':)', 'x', 'x'],
         [':(', 'x', 'x']],

        [[':)', 'x', 'x'],
         [':(', 'x', 'x'],
         [':)', 'x', 'x']],

        [[':(', 'x', 'x'],
         [':)', 'x', 'x'],
         [':)', 'x', 'x']]]

print(cube)
print(cube[0][0][0])  # outputs: ':('
print(cube[2][2][0])  # outputs: ':)'
