## Literals - the data in itself

A literal is data whose values are determined by the literal data itself.

## Integers: octal and hexadecimal numbers
If an integer number is preceded by an 0O or 0o prefix (zero-o), it will be treated as an octal value. This means that the number must contain digits taken from the [0..7] range only.
0o123 is an octal number with a (decimal) value equal to 83.

The second convention allows us to use hexadecimal numbers. Such numbers should be preceded by the prefix 0x or 0X (zero-x).
0x123 is a hexadecimal number with a (decimal) value equal to 291.

## Floats
you can omit zero when it is the only digit in front of or after the decimal point.

In essence, you can write the value 0.4 as:

.4

For example: the value of 4.0 could be written as:

4.

This will change neither its type nor its value.

## Integer vs Float
When you want to use any numbers that are very large or very small, you can use scientific notation.


Take, for example, the speed of light, expressed in meters per second. Written directly it would look like this: 300000000.

To avoid writing out so many zeros, physics textbooks use an abbreviated form, which you have probably already seen: 3 x 108.

In Python, the same effect is achieved in a slightly different way - take a look:

3E8

The letter E (you can also use the lower-case letter e - it comes from the word exponent) is a concise record of the phrase times ten to the power of.

Note:

the exponent (the value after the E) has to be an integer;
the base (the value in front of the E) may be an integer.

## Strings with quotes

Let's assume that we want to print a very simple message saying:

I like "Monty Python"

How do we do it without generating an error? There are two possible solutions.

The backslash can escape quotes too. A quote preceded by a backslash changes its meaning - it's not a delimiter, but just a quote. This will work as intended:

print("I like \"Monty Python\"")

The second solution may be a bit surprising. Python can use an apostrophe instead of a quote. Either of these characters may delimit strings, but you must be consistent.

If you open a string with a quote, you have to close it with a quote.

If you start a string with an apostrophe, you have to end it with an apostrophe.

print('I like "Monty Python"')

## Booleans

True and False, denoted as 1 and 0.

print(True > False #=> True (because true = 1 & false = 0)
print(True < False) #=> False

## Key Takeaways 

1. Literals are notations for representing some fixed values in code. Python has various types of literals - for example, a literal can be a number (numeric literals, e.g., 123), or a string (string literals, e.g., "I am a literal.").

2. The binary system is a system of numbers that employs 2 as the base. Therefore, a binary number is made up of 0s and 1s only, e.g., 1010 is 10 in decimal.

Octal and hexadecimal numeration systems, similarly, employ 8 and 16 as their bases respectively. The hexadecimal system uses the decimal numbers and six extra letters.
3. Integers (or simply ints) are one of the numerical types supported by Python. They are numbers written without a fractional component, e.g., 256, or -1 (negative integers).

4. Floating-point numbers (or simply floats) are another one of the numerical types supported by Python. They are numbers that contain (or are able to contain) a fractional component, e.g., 1.27.

5. To encode an apostrophe or a quote inside a string you can either use the escape character, e.g., 'I\'m happy.', or open and close the string using an opposite set of symbols to the ones you wish to encode, e.g., "I'm happy." to encode an apostrophe, and 'He said "Python", not "typhoon"' to encode a (double) quote.

6. Boolean values are the two constant objects True and False used to represent truth values (in numeric contexts 1 is True, while 0 is False.

EXTRA

There is one more, special literal that is used in Python: the None literal. This literal is a so-called NoneType object, and it is used to represent the absence of a value. We'll tell you more about it soon.

What is the decimal value of the following binary number?

1011

It's 11, because (2**0) + (2**1) + (2**3) = 11


