## Arithmetic operators: exponentiation

A ** (double asterisk) sign is an exponentiation (power) operator. Its left argument is the base, its right, the exponent.

print(2 ** 3) #=> 8
print(2 ** 3.) #=> 8.0
print(2. ** 3) #=> 8.0
print(2. ** 3.) #=> 8.0

-> when both ** arguments are integers, the result is an integer, too;
-> when at least one ** argument is a float, the result is a float, too.

## Arithmetic operators: division
A / (slash) sign is a divisional operator.

The value in front of the slash is a **dividend**, the value behind the slash, a **divisor.**

print(6 / 3) #=> 2.0
print(6 / 3.) #=> 2.0
print(6. / 3) #=> 2.0
print(6. / 3.) #=> 2.0

The result produced by the division operator is always a float, regardless of whether or not the result seems to be a float at first glance: 1 / 2, or if it looks like a pure integer: 2 / 1.

## Arithmetic operators: integer division

A // double slash is an **integer divisional operator**. Integer division can also be called floor division. It's different from the regular / single slash divisor because;
- its output lacks the fractional portion, meaning the result is always a flat integer and not a float.
- it conforms to the integer vs float rule

print(6 // 3) #=> 2
print(6 // 3.) #=> 2.0
print(6. // 3) #=> 2.0
print(6. // 3.) #=> 2.0

(compare to results above) 

As you can see, integer by integer division gives an integer result. All other cases produce floats.

## Operators: remainder (modulo)
The result of the % modulo operator is a remainder left after the integer division.

Take a look at the snippet - try to predict its result and then run it:

print(14 % 4)


As you can see, the result is two. This is why:

14 // 4 gives 3 → this is the integer **quotient**; (4 goes into 14 3 times evenly) 
3 * 4 gives 12 → as a result of **quotient and divisor multiplication;** 
14 - 12 gives 2 → this is the remainder.

## Operators: how not to divide
As you probably know, division by zero doesn't work.

Do not try to:

perform a division by zero;
perform an integer division by zero;
find a remainder of a division by zero.

## Operators and their priorities
Python precisely defines the priorities of all operators, and assumes that operators of a larger (higher) priority perform their operations before the operators of a lower priority. (Python follows PEMDAS)

## Operators and their bindings
The binding of the operator determines the order of computations performed by some operators with equal priority, put side by side in one expression.

Most of Python's operators have left-sided binding, which means that the calculation of the expression is conducted from left to right.

print(9 % 6 % 2)
There are two possible ways of evaluating this expression:

from left to right: first 9 % 6 gives 3, and then 3 % 2 gives 1;
from right to left: first 6 % 2 gives 0, and then 9 % 0 causes a fatal error.

## Operators and their bindings: exponentiation
print(2 ** 2 ** 3)


The two possible results are:

2 ** 2 → 4; 4 ** 3 → 64
2 ** 3 → 8; 2 ** 8 → 256

the output is 256, which shows that the exponentiation operator uses right-sided binding.

## Operators and Parentheses 
Of course, you're always allowed to use parentheses, which can change the natural order of a calculation.

In accordance with the arithmetic rules, subexpressions in parentheses are always calculated first. Parentheses are often used to improve readability of an expression. 

## Key takeaways

1. An expression is a combination of values (or variables, operators, calls to functions ‒ you will learn about them soon) which evaluates to a certain value, e.g., 1 + 2.

2. Operators are special symbols or keywords which are able to operate on the values and perform (mathematical) operations, e.g., the * operator multiplies two values: x * y.

3. Arithmetic operators in Python: + (addition), - (subtraction), * (multiplication), / (classic division ‒ always returns a float), % (modulus ‒ divides left operand by right operand and returns the remainder of the operation, e.g., 5 % 2 = 1), ** (exponentiation ‒ left operand raised to the power of right operand, e.g., 2 ** 3 = 2 * 2 * 2 = 8), // (floor/integer division ‒ returns a number resulting from division, but rounded down to the nearest whole number, e.g., 3 // 2.0 = 1.0)

4. A unary operator is an operator with only one operand, e.g., -1, or +3.

5. A binary operator is an operator with two operands, e.g., 4 + 5, or 12 % 5.

6. Some operators act before others – the hierarchy of priorities:

the ** operator (exponentiation) has the highest priority;
then the unary + and - (note: a unary operator to the right of the exponentiation operator binds more strongly, for example: 4 ** -1 equals 0.25)
then *, /, //, and %;
and, finally, the lowest priority: the binary + and -.
7. Subexpressions in parentheses are always calculated first, e.g., 15 - 1 * (5 * (1 + 2)) = 0.

8. The exponentiation operator uses right-sided binding, e.g., 2 ** 2 ** 3 = 256.


