## Keywords
Take a look at the list of words that play a very special role in every Python program.

['False', 'None', 'True', 'and', 'as', 'assert', 'break', 'class', 'continue', 'def', 'del', 'elif', 'else', 'except', 'finally', 'for', 'from', 'global', 'if', 'import', 'in', 'is', 'lambda', 'nonlocal', 'not', 'or', 'pass', 'raise', 'return', 'try', 'while', 'with', 'yield']

They are called keywords or (more precisely) reserved keywords. They are reserved because you mustn't use them as names: neither for your variables, nor functions, nor any other named entities you want to create.

## Shortcut operators

You may use an expression like this if you can't fall asleep and you're trying to deal with it using some good, old-fashioned methods:

sheep = sheep + 1

Python offers you a shortened way of writing operations like these, which can be coded as follows:

x *= 2
sheep += 1

further examples:

i = i + 2 * j ⇒ i += 2 * j

var = var / 2 ⇒ var /= 2

rem = rem % 10 ⇒ rem %= 10

j = j - (i + var + rem) ⇒ j -= (i + var + rem)

x = x ** 2 ⇒ x **= 2


## Key takeaways

1. A variable is a named location reserved to store values in the memory. A variable is created or initialized automatically when you assign a value to it for the first time. (2.1.4.1)

2. Each variable must have a unique name - an identifier. A legal identifier name must be a non-empty sequence of characters, must begin with the underscore(_), or a letter, and it cannot be a Python keyword. The first character may be followed by underscores, letters, and digits. Identifiers in Python are case-sensitive. (2.1.4.1)

3. Python is a dynamically-typed language, which means you don't need to declare variables in it. (2.1.4.3) To assign values to variables, you can use a simple assignment operator in the form of the equal (=) sign, i.e., var = 1.

4. You can also use compound assignment operators (shortcut operators) to modify values assigned to variables, e.g., var += 1, or var /= 5 * 2. (2.1.4.8)

5. You can assign new values to already existing variables using the assignment operator or one of the compound operators, e.g.: (2.1.4.5)

var = 2
print(var)

var = 3
print(var)

var += 1
print(var)


6. You can combine text and variables using the + operator, and use the print() function to output strings and variables, e.g.: (2.1.4.4)

var = "007"
print("Agent " + var)
